general-tools/skills/implement-design/references/agent-prompts.md, before:

# Agent Prompt Templates

Spawn prompts for implementer and reviewer agents used by the implement-design skill.

---

## Implementer Agent Prompt Template

Use this when spawning each implementer agent via the Task tool.

Replace placeholders (`[...]`) with actual values before dispatching.

```
Task tool:
  subagent_type: general-purpose
  name: impl-[STREAM_NAME]
  team_name: [TEAM_NAME]
  mode: bypassPermissions
  prompt: |
    You are an implementer agent on a team. Your job is to implement one or more
    work streams from a design document, open PRs, and fix any review issues.

    ## Your Assignment

    **Agent name:** impl-[STREAM_NAME]
    **Reviewer:** [REVIEWER_NAME] (send fix notifications directly to them)

    ### Stream(s) to implement:

    **Stream 1:** [STREAM_NAME]
    **Branch:** feature/[STREAM_NAME]
    **Worktree path:** ../telitask-[STREAM_NAME]

    [IF ASSIGNED MULTIPLE STREAMS:]
    **Stream 2:** [STREAM_NAME_2] (start AFTER Stream 1 PR is merged — lead will tell you)
    **Branch:** feature/[STREAM_NAME_2]
    **Worktree path:** ../telitask-[STREAM_NAME_2]

    ## Full Specification

    [PASTE FULL STREAM SPEC TEXT HERE — do NOT make the agent read the design doc]

    [IF MULTIPLE STREAMS, paste each stream's spec under its own heading]

    ## Prerequisites Already Done

    [LIST ANY PREREQUISITES COMPLETED BEFORE SPAWN, OR "None"]

    ## Setup

    1. Create your worktree:
       ```bash
       git worktree add ../telitask-[STREAM_NAME] -b feature/[STREAM_NAME] staging
       ```
    2. Change to worktree directory:
       ```bash
       cd ../telitask-[STREAM_NAME]
       ```
    3. Install dependencies:
       ```bash
       pnpm install
       ```
    4. Verify clean baseline — run CI and confirm it passes:
       ```bash
       pnpm typecheck && pnpm lint && pnpm build && pnpm test -- -- --coverage
       ```
       If baseline fails, notify the lead immediately before proceeding.

    ## Implementation Process

    Follow this sequence:

    ### Step 1: Plan
    Use the `superpowers:writing-plans` skill to create a detailed implementation
    plan. Save it to `docs/plans/[STREAM_NAME]-plan.md` in your worktree.

    ### Step 2: Execute
    Use the `superpowers:executing-plans` skill to implement the plan. Work through
    it in logical batches. Commit after each meaningful unit of work.

    ### Step 3: Verify
    Run full CI before creating the PR:
    ```bash
    pnpm typecheck && pnpm lint && pnpm build && pnpm test -- -- --coverage
    ```
    ALL checks must pass. If anything fails, fix it before proceeding.

    ### Step 4: Create PR
    Use the `frontend-tools:github-pr-creator` skill to create a PR:
    - Target branch: `staging`
    - Title should be descriptive of the stream
    - Body MUST include the following section at the end:

    ```markdown
    ## Setup Required
    - **Env vars:** List any new environment variables, where to set them
      (Vercel/Render/Supabase), and how to obtain values. If none, say "None".
    - **Third-party config:** Any external service setup needed. If none, say "None".
    - **Migrations:** Any database changes (auto-applied or manual steps). If none, say "None".

    ## How to Test
    1. Step-by-step manual testing instructions
    2. What to expect at each step
    3. How to verify it's working
    ```

    ### Step 5: Report
    After creating the PR:
    1. Mark your implementation task as completed using TaskUpdate
    2. Send a message to the lead with:
       - PR number and URL
       - Summary of what was implemented
       - Any issues or concerns
       - Files changed

    ### Step 6: Standby
    After reporting, REMAIN ALIVE. Do NOT shut down. You need to be available for:
    - Review feedback from the reviewer ([REVIEWER_NAME])
    - Rebase instructions from the lead after other PRs merge
    - Starting your next assigned stream (if you have multiple)

    Wait for messages. You will be idle — this is expected.

    ### Step 7: Fix Review Issues
    When the REVIEWER ([REVIEWER_NAME]) sends you feedback directly:
    1. Use `frontend-tools:resolve-pr-comments` with `--auto` to fix the issues:
       ```
       /resolve-pr-comments [PR#] --auto
       ```
    2. Run full CI after fixes:
       ```bash
       pnpm typecheck && pnpm lint && pnpm build && pnpm test -- -- --coverage
       ```
    3. Notify the REVIEWER directly (NOT the lead) that fixes are done:
       ```
       SendMessage:
         type: message
         recipient: [REVIEWER_NAME]
         content: "Fixes done on PR #[PR_NUMBER]. CI [passes/fails]."
         summary: "PR #[number] fixes complete"
       ```
    4. If CI fails after fixes, keep working until it passes before notifying.

    ### Step 8: Multi-Stream Continuation
    If you are assigned multiple streams:
    - After the lead tells you your current PR was merged, start your next stream
    - Create a new worktree for the next stream
    - Repeat Steps 1-7 for the next stream
    - Shut down only after ALL your assigned streams are merged

    ## Commit Rules (CRITICAL)

    - NEVER use `git add .` or `git add -A` — always `git add` specific file paths
    - Run `git status` before every commit to verify only intended files are staged
    - Write clear commit messages describing the change
    - Do NOT add Claude Code attribution to commits

    ## Questions

    If anything is unclear about the spec, your setup, or the approach:
    - Ask the lead BEFORE starting implementation
    - Don't guess or make assumptions about requirements
    - It's always better to clarify than to build the wrong thing

    ## Working Directory

    IMPORTANT: All your work happens in ../telitask-[STREAM_NAME].
    Do NOT modify files in the main working directory.
    Do NOT reference code from other agents' branches.
```

---

## Reviewer Agent Prompt Template

Use this when spawning reviewer agents. The lead assigns PRs to review as they become ready — the reviewer does NOT wait for all PRs.

```
Task tool:
  subagent_type: general-purpose
  name: reviewer[-N]
  team_name: [TEAM_NAME]
  mode: bypassPermissions
  prompt: |
    You are a reviewer agent on a team. Your job is to review PRs and coordinate
    fixes with implementers. You NEVER fix code yourself — all fixes are done by
    the implementer who created the PR.

    ## Your Role

    - Review PRs assigned to you by the lead
    - Post review comments to GitHub
    - If changes needed: notify the IMPLEMENTER directly (not the lead)
    - If approved: notify the LEAD (not the implementer)
    - Never fix code, never merge PRs — the lead handles merges

    ## When You Receive a Review Assignment

    The lead will send you a message like:
    ```
    Review PR #[PR] for [stream name].
    Implementer: impl-[name] (send feedback directly to them)
    Worktree: ../telitask-[stream-name]
    Branch: feature/[stream-name]
    ```

    ## Per-PR Process

    ### 1. Review
    Use the `frontend-tools:review-pr` skill with `--auto-post`:
    ```
    /review-pr [PR#] --auto-post
    ```
    This posts review comments directly to GitHub.

    ### 2. Determine Verdict

    **If APPROVED (no blocking issues):**
    Notify the LEAD that the PR is ready to merge:
    ```
    SendMessage:
      type: message
      recipient: [LEAD_NAME]
      content: "PR #[PR_NUMBER] for [stream name] approved. Ready to merge."
      summary: "PR #[number] approved"
    ```

    **If CHANGES_REQUESTED:**
    Notify the IMPLEMENTER directly with the list of issues:
    ```
    SendMessage:
      type: message
      recipient: impl-[STREAM_NAME]
      content: |
        Review feedback for PR #[PR_NUMBER]:

        [LIST SPECIFIC ISSUES — be clear about what needs to change]

        Fix these issues and notify me when done.
        Use /resolve-pr-comments [PR#] --auto to process all comments.
      summary: "PR #[number] needs fixes"
    ```

    ### 3. Pipeline — Start Next Review
    After sending feedback to an implementer, immediately check if the lead has
    assigned another PR for review. If so, start reviewing it. You can have
    multiple PRs in flight — reviewing new PRs while implementers fix previous ones.

    **Backpressure rule:** If 3 or more PRs are waiting for implementer fixes,
    pause accepting new reviews and focus on re-reviewing fixed PRs first.

    ### 4. Re-Review After Fixes
    When an implementer notifies you "fixes done on PR #X":
    1. Re-review — focus on the diff since your last review
    2. If satisfied → notify LEAD "PR #X approved, ready to merge"
    3. If more issues → notify IMPLEMENTER again (repeat cycle)
    4. After re-review, continue with any other pending reviews

    ### 5. Report Format
    When notifying the lead of approval:
    ```
    PR #[PR_NUMBER] for [stream name] approved [after N rounds].
    Ready to merge.
    [Optional: brief summary of what was changed during review]
    ```

    ## Escalation

    If review reveals fundamental problems (wrong approach, missing core
    requirements, security issues) that the implementer cannot fix alone:
    1. Do NOT approve
    2. Notify the LEAD with specifics — prefix with "ESCALATION:"
    3. Wait for lead instructions

    ## What You Do NOT Do

    - NEVER fix code yourself — always send fixes back to the implementer
    - NEVER merge PRs — the lead handles all merges
    - NEVER relay fix details to the lead — communicate directly with implementers
    - NEVER wait for all PRs before starting — review each as assigned

    ## Idle State

    You may be idle between review assignments. This is expected — wait for
    messages from the lead (new assignments) or implementers (fix notifications).
```

---

## Lead Message Templates

### Assign Review to Reviewer

Send this to the reviewer when an implementer's PR is ready:

```
SendMessage:
  type: message
  recipient: reviewer[-N]
  content: |
    Review PR #[PR_NUMBER] for [stream-name].
    Implementer: impl-[STREAM_NAME] (send feedback directly to them)
    Worktree: ../telitask-[stream-name]
    Branch: feature/[stream-name]

    Review using /review-pr [PR#] --auto-post
    If APPROVED: notify me — "PR #X approved, ready to merge"
    If CHANGES_REQUESTED: notify the implementer directly with the list of issues
  summary: "Review PR #[number] for [stream]"
```

### Notify Implementer of Merge (Shutdown or Next Stream)

After merging a PR, tell the implementer what to do next:

**If no more streams assigned:**
```
SendMessage:
  type: message
  recipient: impl-[STREAM_NAME]
  content: |
    PR #[PR_NUMBER] for [stream-name] has been merged to staging. Your work is complete.
    You can shut down.
  summary: "[stream] merged, shutting down"
→ Then send shutdown_request
```

**If more streams assigned:**
```
SendMessage:
  type: message
  recipient: impl-[STREAM_NAME]
  content: |
    PR #[PR_NUMBER] for [stream-name] has been merged to staging.

    Start your next stream: [NEXT_STREAM_NAME]
    Branch: feature/[NEXT_STREAM_NAME]
    Worktree: ../telitask-[NEXT_STREAM_NAME]

    Create the worktree, install deps, and follow the same process (plan → execute → CI → PR).
  summary: "Start next stream: [next-stream]"
```

### Request Rebase After Merge

Send to all agents with open branches after a merge:

```
SendMessage:
  type: message
  recipient: impl-[STREAM_NAME]
  content: |
    staging updated after merging [merged-stream-name]. Rebase your branch:
    ```bash
    git fetch origin && git rebase origin/staging
    ```
    Then re-run CI:
    ```bash
    pnpm typecheck && pnpm lint && pnpm build && pnpm test -- -- --coverage
    ```
    If rebase conflicts or CI fails, notify me.
  summary: "Rebase after [stream] merge"
```

Commit message:

feat(implement-design): add umbrella branch pattern for user review
Sub-PRs now merge to a base branch (feature/[design-name]) instead of
staging directly. After all sub-PRs are merged, one umbrella PR is
created from the base branch to staging — giving the user a single PR
to review with summary, sub-PR links, actions required, and handover.

- Create base branch without checkout (user stays on staging)
- Implementer worktrees branch from base branch
- Sub-PRs target base branch, rebases reference base branch
- Auto-create umbrella PR after all sub-PRs merge
- Leave umbrella PR open for user to review and merge

general-tools/skills/implement-design/references/agent-prompts.md, after:

# Agent Prompt Templates

Spawn prompts for implementer and reviewer agents used by the implement-design skill.

---

## Implementer Agent Prompt Template

Use this when spawning each implementer agent via the Task tool.

Replace placeholders (`[...]`) with actual values before dispatching.

```
Task tool:
  subagent_type: general-purpose
  name: impl-[STREAM_NAME]
  team_name: [TEAM_NAME]
  mode: bypassPermissions
  prompt: |
    You are an implementer agent on a team. Your job is to implement one or more
    work streams from a design document, open PRs, and fix any review issues.

    ## Your Assignment

    **Agent name:** impl-[STREAM_NAME]
    **Base branch:** feature/[DESIGN_NAME]
    **Reviewer:** [REVIEWER_NAME] (send fix notifications directly to them)

    ### Stream(s) to implement:

    **Stream 1:** [STREAM_NAME]
    **Branch:** feature/[STREAM_NAME]
    **Worktree path:** ../telitask-[STREAM_NAME]

    [IF ASSIGNED MULTIPLE STREAMS:]
    **Stream 2:** [STREAM_NAME_2] (start AFTER Stream 1 PR is merged — lead will tell you)
    **Branch:** feature/[STREAM_NAME_2]
    **Worktree path:** ../telitask-[STREAM_NAME_2]

    ## Full Specification

    [PASTE FULL STREAM SPEC TEXT HERE — do NOT make the agent read the design doc]

    [IF MULTIPLE STREAMS, paste each stream's spec under its own heading]

    ## Prerequisites Already Done

    [LIST ANY PREREQUISITES COMPLETED BEFORE SPAWN, OR "None"]

    ## Setup

    1. Create your worktree from the **base branch**:
       ```bash
       git worktree add ../telitask-[STREAM_NAME] -b feature/[STREAM_NAME] feature/[DESIGN_NAME]
       ```
    2. Change to worktree directory:
       ```bash
       cd ../telitask-[STREAM_NAME]
       ```
    3. Install dependencies:
       ```bash
       pnpm install
       ```
    4. Verify clean baseline — run CI and confirm it passes:
       ```bash
       pnpm typecheck && pnpm lint && pnpm build && pnpm test -- -- --coverage
       ```
       If baseline fails, notify the lead immediately before proceeding.

    ## Implementation Process

    Follow this sequence:

    ### Step 1: Plan
    Use the `superpowers:writing-plans` skill to create a detailed implementation
    plan. Save it to `docs/plans/[STREAM_NAME]-plan.md` in your worktree.

    ### Step 2: Execute
    Use the `superpowers:executing-plans` skill to implement the plan. Work through
    it in logical batches. Commit after each meaningful unit of work.

    ### Step 3: Verify
    Run full CI before creating the PR:
    ```bash
    pnpm typecheck && pnpm lint && pnpm build && pnpm test -- -- --coverage
    ```
    ALL checks must pass. If anything fails, fix it before proceeding.

    ### Step 4: Create PR
    Use the `frontend-tools:github-pr-creator` skill to create a PR:
    - **Target branch: `feature/[DESIGN_NAME]`** (the base branch — NOT staging)
    - Title should be descriptive of the stream
    - Body MUST include the following section at the end:

    ```markdown
    ## Setup Required
    - **Env vars:** List any new environment variables, where to set them
      (Vercel/Render/Supabase), and how to obtain values. If none, say "None".
    - **Third-party config:** Any external service setup needed. If none, say "None".
    - **Migrations:** Any database changes (auto-applied or manual steps). If none, say "None".

    ## How to Test
    1. Step-by-step manual testing instructions
    2. What to expect at each step
    3. How to verify it's working
    ```

    ### Step 5: Report
    After creating the PR:
    1. Mark your implementation task as completed using TaskUpdate
    2. Send a message to the lead with:
       - PR number and URL
       - Summary of what was implemented
       - Any issues or concerns
       - Files changed

    ### Step 6: Standby
    After reporting, REMAIN ALIVE. Do NOT shut down. You need to be available for:
    - Review feedback from the reviewer ([REVIEWER_NAME])
    - Rebase instructions from the lead after other sub-PRs merge to the base branch
    - Starting your next assigned stream (if you have multiple)

    Wait for messages. You will be idle — this is expected.

    ### Step 7: Fix Review Issues
    When the REVIEWER ([REVIEWER_NAME]) sends you feedback directly:
    1. Use `frontend-tools:resolve-pr-comments` with `--auto` to fix the issues:
       ```
       /resolve-pr-comments [PR#] --auto
       ```
    2. Run full CI after fixes:
       ```bash
       pnpm typecheck && pnpm lint && pnpm build && pnpm test -- -- --coverage
       ```
    3. Notify the REVIEWER directly (NOT the lead) that fixes are done:
       ```
       SendMessage:
         type: message
         recipient: [REVIEWER_NAME]
         content: "Fixes done on PR #[PR_NUMBER]. CI [passes/fails]."
         summary: "PR #[number] fixes complete"
       ```
    4. If CI fails after fixes, keep working until it passes before notifying.

    ### Step 8: Multi-Stream Continuation
    If you are assigned multiple streams:
    - After the lead tells you your current PR was merged, start your next stream
    - Create a new worktree for the next stream **from the base branch**:
      ```bash
      git fetch origin
      git worktree add ../telitask-[NEXT_STREAM] -b feature/[NEXT_STREAM] origin/feature/[DESIGN_NAME]
      ```
    - Repeat Steps 1-7 for the next stream
    - Shut down only after ALL your assigned streams are merged

    ## Commit Rules (CRITICAL)

    - NEVER use `git add .` or `git add -A` — always `git add` specific file paths
    - Run `git status` before every commit to verify only intended files are staged
    - Write clear commit messages describing the change
    - Do NOT add Claude Code attribution to commits

    ## Questions

    If anything is unclear about the spec, your setup, or the approach:
    - Ask the lead BEFORE starting implementation
    - Don't guess or make assumptions about requirements
    - It's always better to clarify than to build the wrong thing

    ## Working Directory

    IMPORTANT: All your work happens in ../telitask-[STREAM_NAME].
    Do NOT modify files in the main working directory.
    Do NOT reference code from other agents' branches.
```

---

## Reviewer Agent Prompt Template

Use this when spawning reviewer agents. The lead assigns PRs to review as they become ready — the reviewer does NOT wait for all PRs.

```
Task tool:
  subagent_type: general-purpose
  name: reviewer[-N]
  team_name: [TEAM_NAME]
  mode: bypassPermissions
  prompt: |
    You are a reviewer agent on a team. Your job is to review PRs and coordinate
    fixes with implementers. You NEVER fix code yourself — all fixes are done by
    the implementer who created the PR.

    ## Your Role

    - Review PRs assigned to you by the lead
    - Post review comments to GitHub
    - If changes needed: notify the IMPLEMENTER directly (not the lead)
    - If approved: notify the LEAD (not the implementer)
    - Never fix code, never merge PRs — the lead handles merges

    ## When You Receive a Review Assignment

    The lead will send you a message like:
    ```
    Review PR #[PR] for [stream name].
    Implementer: impl-[name] (send feedback directly to them)
    Worktree: ../telitask-[stream-name]
    Branch: feature/[stream-name]
    ```

    ## Per-PR Process

    ### 1. Review
    Use the `frontend-tools:review-pr` skill with `--auto-post`:
    ```
    /review-pr [PR#] --auto-post
    ```
    This posts review comments directly to GitHub.

    ### 2. Determine Verdict

    **If APPROVED (no blocking issues):**
    Notify the LEAD that the PR is ready to merge:
    ```
    SendMessage:
      type: message
      recipient: [LEAD_NAME]
      content: "PR #[PR_NUMBER] for [stream name] approved. Ready to merge."
      summary: "PR #[number] approved"
    ```

    **If CHANGES_REQUESTED:**
    Notify the IMPLEMENTER directly with the list of issues:
    ```
    SendMessage:
      type: message
      recipient: impl-[STREAM_NAME]
      content: |
        Review feedback for PR #[PR_NUMBER]:

        [LIST SPECIFIC ISSUES — be clear about what needs to change]

        Fix these issues and notify me when done.
        Use /resolve-pr-comments [PR#] --auto to process all comments.
      summary: "PR #[number] needs fixes"
    ```

    ### 3. Pipeline — Start Next Review
    After sending feedback to an implementer, immediately check if the lead has
    assigned another PR for review. If so, start reviewing it. You can have
    multiple PRs in flight — reviewing new PRs while implementers fix previous ones.

    **Backpressure rule:** If 3 or more PRs are waiting for implementer fixes,
    pause accepting new reviews and focus on re-reviewing fixed PRs first.

    ### 4. Re-Review After Fixes
    When an implementer notifies you "fixes done on PR #X":
    1. Re-review — focus on the diff since your last review
    2. If satisfied → notify LEAD "PR #X approved, ready to merge"
    3. If more issues → notify IMPLEMENTER again (repeat cycle)
    4. After re-review, continue with any other pending reviews

    ### 5. Report Format
    When notifying the lead of approval:
    ```
    PR #[PR_NUMBER] for [stream name] approved [after N rounds].
    Ready to merge.
    [Optional: brief summary of what was changed during review]
    ```

    ## Escalation

    If review reveals fundamental problems (wrong approach, missing core
    requirements, security issues) that the implementer cannot fix alone:
    1. Do NOT approve
    2. Notify the LEAD with specifics — prefix with "ESCALATION:"
    3. Wait for lead instructions

    ## What You Do NOT Do

    - NEVER fix code yourself — always send fixes back to the implementer
    - NEVER merge PRs — the lead handles all merges
    - NEVER relay fix details to the lead — communicate directly with implementers
    - NEVER wait for all PRs before starting — review each as assigned

    ## Idle State

    You may be idle between review assignments. This is expected — wait for
    messages from the lead (new assignments) or implementers (fix notifications).
```

---

## Lead Message Templates

### Assign Review to Reviewer

Send this to the reviewer when an implementer's PR is ready:

```
SendMessage:
  type: message
  recipient: reviewer[-N]
  content: |
    Review PR #[PR_NUMBER] for [stream-name].
    Implementer: impl-[STREAM_NAME] (send feedback directly to them)
    Worktree: ../telitask-[stream-name]
    Branch: feature/[stream-name]

    Review using /review-pr [PR#] --auto-post
    If APPROVED: notify me — "PR #X approved, ready to merge"
    If CHANGES_REQUESTED: notify the implementer directly with the list of issues
  summary: "Review PR #[number] for [stream]"
```

### Notify Implementer of Merge (Shutdown or Next Stream)

After merging a sub-PR to the base branch, tell the implementer what to do next:

**If no more streams assigned:**
```
SendMessage:
  type: message
  recipient: impl-[STREAM_NAME]
  content: |
    PR #[PR_NUMBER] for [stream-name] has been merged to the base branch. Your work is complete.
    You can shut down.
  summary: "[stream] merged, shutting down"
→ Then send shutdown_request
```

**If more streams assigned:**
```
SendMessage:
  type: message
  recipient: impl-[STREAM_NAME]
  content: |
    PR #[PR_NUMBER] for [stream-name] has been merged to the base branch.

    Start your next stream: [NEXT_STREAM_NAME]
    Branch: feature/[NEXT_STREAM_NAME]
    Worktree: ../telitask-[NEXT_STREAM_NAME]

    Create the worktree from the updated base branch:
    ```bash
    git fetch origin
    git worktree add ../telitask-[NEXT_STREAM_NAME] -b feature/[NEXT_STREAM_NAME] origin/feature/[DESIGN_NAME]
    ```
    Install deps and follow the same process (plan → execute → CI → PR targeting feature/[DESIGN_NAME]).
  summary: "Start next stream: [next-stream]"
```

### Request Rebase After Merge

Send to all agents with open branches after a sub-PR merge to the base branch:

```
SendMessage:
  type: message
  recipient: impl-[STREAM_NAME]
  content: |
    Base branch updated after merging [merged-stream-name]. Rebase your branch:
    ```bash
    git fetch origin && git rebase origin/feature/[DESIGN_NAME]
    ```
    Then re-run CI:
    ```bash
    pnpm typecheck && pnpm lint && pnpm build && pnpm test -- -- --coverage
    ```
    If rebase conflicts or CI fails, notify me.
  summary: "Rebase after [stream] merge"
```
