general-tools/skills/implement-design/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: implement-design
description: >
  Orchestrate parallel implementation of a design document using Claude Code
  agent teams. Reads a design doc, analyzes complexity to determine optimal
  team structure (single-agent or multi-agent), spawns implementer agents in
  isolated worktrees with a dedicated reviewer. Reviewers communicate directly
  with implementers for fix loops — the lead only handles merges and
  coordination. Supports --auto for fully autonomous mode or checkpoint-based
  mode with user approval gates. Use when asked to "implement this design",
  "execute this plan with agents", "build features from design doc", or
  "run agent team on design".
disable-model-invocation: true
argument-hint: <design-doc-path> [--auto]
---

# Implement Design

Orchestrate end-to-end implementation of a design document: analyze design, determine optimal team structure, spawn parallel implementers in isolated worktrees, pipeline reviews with direct agent-to-agent communication, and merge PRs sequentially.

**Announce at start:** "I'm using the implement-design skill to orchestrate implementation of this design document."

## Phase 1: Analyze Design Doc

Parse `$ARGUMENTS` for the design doc path and `--auto` flag.

```
Arguments: $ARGUMENTS
Design doc path: first argument (required)
Auto mode: --auto flag present (optional, default: false)
```

**If no design doc path provided:** Ask the user for the path.

### Steps

1. **Read the design doc** in full
2. **Extract work streams** — look for sections like "Work Streams", "Streams", "Tasks", "Implementation Plan", or numbered phases that can run independently
3. **For each stream, extract:**
   - Stream name (short identifier, kebab-case for branch names)
   - Scope summary (1-2 sentences)
   - Full task list (copy the text verbatim — agents need the complete spec)
   - Dependencies on other streams (if any)
   - File paths likely touched (scan spec for filenames, directories, components)
4. **Determine merge order** — streams with no dependencies merge first; if the design doc specifies order, follow it
5. **Identify prerequisites** — anything that must happen before any stream starts (shared migrations, package installs, etc.)

### Present Breakdown

Show the user:

```
## Design: [title from doc]

### Prerequisites (before any stream)
- [list or "None"]

### Work Streams

| # | Stream | Branch | Scope | Dependencies | Est. Files |
|---|--------|--------|-------|--------------|------------|
| 1 | [name] | feature/[name] | [summary] | None | [count] |
| 2 | [name] | feature/[name] | [summary] | Stream 1 (if any) | [count] |

### Merge Order
1. Stream X (no dependencies)
2. Stream Y (after X merged)
```

**Checkpoint** (unless `--auto`): Ask user to confirm the breakdown using AskUserQuestion. Options: "Looks good, proceed" / "I want to adjust".

## Phase 1.5: Propose Team Structure

Analyze the work streams from Phase 1 to determine optimal team composition. **Ignore any team size suggestions in the design doc** — analyze from scratch.

### Analysis Rules

Apply these rules in order:

1. **Single-agent path:** If 1 stream OR total tasks across all streams ≤ 3 → recommend **single agent**
2. **High overlap consolidation:** If streams share >70% of file paths → consolidate into fewer agents (group overlapping streams onto one agent)
3. **Linear dependency chain:** If dependency chain is fully linear (A→B→C) → max 2 agents
4. **Independent streams:** If streams are fully independent → 1 agent per stream (cap at 5)
5. **Load balancing:** Group small streams (≤ 2 tasks) onto one agent; keep large streams (5+ tasks) isolated. One agent CAN handle multiple streams sequentially (PR for stream A, then start stream B)
6. **Reviewer count:** 1 reviewer for ≤ 3 PRs total, 2 reviewers for 4+ PRs

### Present Team Structure

Show the user:

```
## Proposed Team Structure

**Path:** [Single-agent / Multi-agent]
**Reasoning:** [1-2 sentences explaining why]

### Agents

| Agent | Type | Assigned Streams | Worktree |
|-------|------|-----------------|----------|
| impl-1 | implementer | [stream-a], [stream-b] | ../telitask-impl-1 |
| impl-2 | implementer | [stream-c] | ../telitask-impl-2 |
| reviewer-1 | reviewer | Reviews all PRs | (uses impl worktrees) |

### Merge Order
1. [stream-a] PR (impl-1) → reviewer-1
2. [stream-b] PR (impl-1, after stream-a merges) → reviewer-1
3. [stream-c] PR (impl-2) → reviewer-1

### PR Count: [N] | Reviewer(s): [1 or 2]
```

**Checkpoint** (unless `--auto`): Ask user to confirm team structure using AskUserQuestion. Options: "Looks good, proceed" / "I want to adjust".

## Phase 2: Setup Agent Team & Tasks

### Handle Prerequisites

If prerequisites exist (shared migrations, package installs, etc.):
1. Execute them on `staging` before spawning agents
2. Commit and push so worktrees pick them up

### Single-Agent Path

If Phase 1.5 recommended single-agent:

1. **Create worktree** (always — user may be working in main directory):
   ```bash
   git worktree add ../telitask-[stream-name] -b feature/[stream-name] staging
   ```
2. **Plan and execute** directly using `superpowers:writing-plans` → `superpowers:executing-plans`
3. **Run CI:** `pnpm typecheck && pnpm lint && pnpm build && pnpm test -- -- --coverage`
4. **Create PR** using `frontend-tools:github-pr-creator` — include Setup & Testing section (see agent-prompts.md)
5. **Self-review** with `frontend-tools:review-pr`
6. **Fix any issues** from self-review
7. **Generate handover document** (see Phase 5)
8. **Clean up worktree** and report to user

**Skip to Phase 5 after completion** — no team, no reviewer agent needed.

### Multi-Agent Path

#### Create Team

```
TeamCreate:
  team_name: [design-doc-name] (e.g., "admin-phase2")
  description: "Implementing [design title]"
```

#### Create Tasks

For each stream, create **three** tasks:

**Implementation task:**
```
TaskCreate:
  subject: "Implement [stream name]"
  description: "[Full stream spec text from design doc]"
  activeForm: "Implementing [stream name]"
```

**Review task** (blocked by corresponding implementation task):
```
TaskCreate:
  subject: "Review [stream name]"
  description: "Review PR for [stream name], post comments, coordinate fixes with implementer"
  activeForm: "Reviewing [stream name]"
  → TaskUpdate: addBlockedBy: [implementation task ID]
```

**Merge task** (blocked by review task AND previous stream's merge task):
```
TaskCreate:
  subject: "Merge [stream name]"
  description: "Merge [stream name] PR to staging after review approval"
  activeForm: "Merging [stream name]"
  → TaskUpdate: addBlockedBy: [review task ID]
  → TaskUpdate: addBlockedBy: [previous stream's merge task ID] (if not first in merge order)
```

#### Spawn Agents

**Implementer agents** — one per agent assignment from Phase 1.5, all spawned in parallel:

```
Task tool:
  subagent_type: general-purpose
  name: impl-[agent-number or stream-name]
  team_name: [team-name]
  mode: bypassPermissions
  prompt: [Use implementer template from references/agent-prompts.md]
```

Populate each implementer prompt with:
- Stream name(s) and full spec text (pasted inline — don't make agents read the design doc)
- Worktree path and branch name
- Prerequisite context (what was already done)
- CI command: `pnpm typecheck && pnpm lint && pnpm build && pnpm test -- -- --coverage`
- PR target: `staging`
- **Reviewer name** (so implementer knows who will review their work)

**Reviewer agent(s)** — 1 for ≤ 3 PRs, 2 for 4+ PRs:

```
Task tool:
  subagent_type: general-purpose
  name: reviewer[-N]
  team_name: [team-name]
  mode: bypassPermissions
  prompt: [Use reviewer template from references/agent-prompts.md]
```

If 2 reviewers: split by merge-order position (reviewer-1 gets positions 1, 3, 5; reviewer-2 gets 2, 4, 6).

**Checkpoint** (unless `--auto`): Show spawned agents and task list.

## Phase 3: Implementation (Parallel)

Each implementer works independently in its own worktree. The lead (you) monitors progress.

**What each implementer does** (defined in their spawn prompt):
1. Create worktree: `git worktree add ../telitask-[stream-name] -b feature/[stream-name] staging`
2. Install dependencies: `pnpm install`
3. Use `superpowers:writing-plans` to create implementation plan
4. Use `superpowers:executing-plans` to execute the plan
5. Run full CI: `pnpm typecheck && pnpm lint && pnpm build && pnpm test -- -- --coverage`
6. Create PR targeting `staging` using `frontend-tools:github-pr-creator` — **must include Setup & Testing section**
7. Mark implementation task as completed
8. Notify lead with PR number
9. **Enter standby** — remain alive, waiting for review feedback from reviewer

**Implementers do NOT shut down after creating the PR.** They remain alive to fix review issues.

**Lead responsibilities during this phase:**
- Monitor agent messages as they come in
- Answer any questions agents raise
- Track which streams have completed
- Handle blockers (provide context, unblock dependencies)
- **Assign reviews to reviewer as soon as each PR is ready** (don't wait for all)

## Phase 4: Pipelined Review & Merge

Reviews start as soon as the first PR is ready — **do not wait for all implementations to complete**.

### Review Assignment

When an implementer notifies that their PR is ready, the lead immediately assigns it to a reviewer:

```
SendMessage:
  type: message
  recipient: reviewer[-N]
  content: |
    Review PR #[PR_NUMBER] for [stream name].
    Implementer: impl-[name] (send feedback directly to them)
    Worktree: ../telitask-[stream-name]
    Branch: feature/[stream-name]

    Review using /review-pr [PR#] --auto-post
    If APPROVED: notify me (the lead) — "PR #X approved, ready to merge"
    If CHANGES_REQUESTED: notify the implementer directly with the list of issues
  summary: "Review PR #[number] for [stream]"
```

### Communication Flow Per PR

1. **Lead → Reviewer:** "Review PR #X for [stream] (implementer: impl-Y)"
2. **Reviewer reviews**, posts comments to GitHub
3. **If APPROVED:** Reviewer → Lead: "PR #X approved, ready to merge"
4. **If CHANGES_REQUESTED:** Reviewer → Implementer: "Fix issues on PR #X: [list]"
5. Implementer fixes, pushes, runs CI
6. Implementer → Reviewer: "Fixes done on PR #X, CI passes/fails"
7. Reviewer re-reviews (focus on diff since last review)
8. Repeat steps 3-7 until approved
9. Reviewer → Lead: "PR #X approved after N rounds"

**Lead only hears:** "PR #X approved" or "Critical issue — escalating" (never fix details).

### Lead's State Tracking

Track each PR through these states:

```
PENDING_REVIEW → IN_REVIEW → READY_TO_MERGE → MERGED
```

The lead does NOT track NEEDS_FIXES — that's between reviewer and implementer.

### Merge Process (Lead Only)

When a reviewer reports "PR #X approved":
1. Verify all predecessor PRs in merge order are MERGED
2. If predecessors aren't merged yet, mark as READY_TO_MERGE and wait
3. Merge: `gh pr merge [PR#] --squash --delete-branch`
4. Mark merge task as completed
5. If more PRs remain, notify all agents with open branches to rebase:
   ```
   SendMessage to each active implementer:
   "staging updated after merging [stream]. Rebase your branch:
    git fetch origin && git rebase origin/staging
    Then re-run CI."
   ```
6. After merge, if the implementer has another assigned stream → tell them to start it. Otherwise → send shutdown request.

**Checkpoint** (unless `--auto`): Confirm after each merge.

### Reviewer Backpressure

Reviewer can have multiple PRs in flight — reviewing PR3 while impl-1 fixes PR1 and impl-2 fixes PR2. **Backpressure rule:** reviewer pauses new reviews if 3+ PRs are in NEEDS_FIXES state (waiting for implementer fixes).

### Multi-Reviewer Coordination

If 2 reviewers are active:
- reviewer-1 handles merge-order positions 1, 3, 5
- reviewer-2 handles merge-order positions 2, 4, 6
- Both report to lead
- Lead still manages merge order centrally (never more than one merge at a time)

## Phase 5: Handover & Cleanup

After all PRs are merged:

### Generate Handover Document

Create `docs/handovers/YYYY-MM-DD-[design-name]-handover.md` by aggregating the Setup & Testing sections from all merged PRs.

1. Read each merged PR's description (already has Setup & Testing info from implementers)
2. Consolidate into one document, deduplicating env vars and ordering setup steps logically
3. Add any cross-cutting concerns (e.g., "run migrations before testing feature X")

**Handover document structure:**

```markdown
# [Design Name] — Implementation Handover

**Date:** YYYY-MM-DD
**Design doc:** [path]
**PRs merged:** #X, #Y, #Z

## Environment Variables

| Variable | Service | How to Obtain | Required |
|----------|---------|---------------|----------|
| [VAR_NAME] | Vercel / Render / Supabase | [instructions] | Yes/No |

## Third-Party Setup

- [Aggregated setup steps from all PRs]

## Database Migrations

- [All migrations in order, noting which PR introduced them]

## Manual Testing Checklist

- [ ] [Combined testing steps from all PRs, ordered logically]

## Known Limitations / Follow-ups

- [Anything scoped out or deferred]
```

### Clean Up

1. **Remove worktrees:**
   ```bash
   git worktree remove ../telitask-[stream-name]
   ```
   For each stream.

2. **Clean up team:**
   - Send shutdown requests to all agents
   - `TeamDelete` after all agents confirm shutdown

3. **Report summary:**
   ```
   ## Implementation Complete

   | Stream | PR | Status |
   |--------|----|--------|
   | [name] | #[number] | Merged |

   All [N] streams implemented and merged to staging.
   Handover document: docs/handovers/[filename]
   [Any issues or notes]
   ```

## Mode Reference

| Mode | Behavior |
|------|----------|
| **Checkpoint** (default) | Pauses for user approval at: breakdown, team structure, agent spawn, after each merge |
| **`--auto`** | Fully autonomous — no pauses, runs start to finish |

## Red Flags

**Never:**
- Let agents share a working directory (always use worktrees — even single-agent)
- Use `git add .` or `git add -A` (always add specific files)
- Merge PRs out of declared order (respects dependency chain)
- Skip CI before creating PR or after rebasing
- Reference code from sibling branches that hasn't been merged
- Skip the review phase — every PR gets reviewed
- Proceed past a failing CI — fix it first
- Have the reviewer fix code — fixes always go back to the implementer
- Relay fix details through the lead — reviewer talks directly to implementer
- Shut down implementers before their PR is merged

**Always:**
- Paste full stream spec into agent prompts (don't make agents read the design doc)
- Create worktrees — even for single-agent mode
- Start reviews as soon as the first PR is ready (don't wait for all)
- Run full CI before PR creation and after rebase
- Rebase remaining branches after each merge
- Include Setup & Testing section in every PR description
- Generate handover document after all merges
- Clean up worktrees and team when done

## Integration

**Skills used by implementer agents:**
- `superpowers:writing-plans` — Create implementation plan
- `superpowers:executing-plans` — Execute plan with batch checkpoints
- `frontend-tools:github-pr-creator` — Create PR
- `frontend-tools:resolve-pr-comments` — Fix review issues (`--auto`)

**Skills used by reviewer agent:**
- `frontend-tools:review-pr` — Post review comments (`--auto-post`)

**Skills used by lead (single-agent path):**
- `superpowers:writing-plans` — Create implementation plan
- `superpowers:executing-plans` — Execute plan
- `frontend-tools:github-pr-creator` — Create PR
- `frontend-tools:review-pr` — Self-review

**Project rules enforced:**
- CLAUDE.md agent team rules (commit conventions, CI, worktree isolation)
- Git workflow (feature branches → staging, never commit to staging directly)

Commit message:

fix(implement-design): remove user confirmation checkpoints, make fully autonomous
- Remove Phase 1, 1.5, Phase 2, and Phase 4 AskUserQuestion checkpoints
- Remove --auto flag (skill is now always autonomous)
- Remove Mode Reference table
- Rename Phase 1.5 from "Propose" to "Determine" Team Structure
- Bump general-tools to v1.5.1

general-tools/skills/implement-design/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: implement-design
description: >
  Orchestrate parallel implementation of a design document using Claude Code
  agent teams. Reads a design doc, analyzes complexity to determine optimal
  team structure (single-agent or multi-agent), spawns implementer agents in
  isolated worktrees with a dedicated reviewer. Reviewers communicate directly
  with implementers for fix loops — the lead only handles merges and
  coordination. Fully autonomous — analyzes streams, determines team size,
  and proceeds without user confirmation. Use when asked to "implement this
  design", "execute this plan with agents", "build features from design doc",
  or "run agent team on design".
disable-model-invocation: true
argument-hint: <design-doc-path>
---

# Implement Design

Orchestrate end-to-end implementation of a design document: analyze design, determine optimal team structure, spawn parallel implementers in isolated worktrees, pipeline reviews with direct agent-to-agent communication, and merge PRs sequentially.

**Announce at start:** "I'm using the implement-design skill to orchestrate implementation of this design document."

## Phase 1: Analyze Design Doc

Parse `$ARGUMENTS` for the design doc path.

```
Arguments: $ARGUMENTS
Design doc path: first argument (required)
```

**If no design doc path provided:** Ask the user for the path.

### Steps

1. **Read the design doc** in full
2. **Extract work streams** — look for sections like "Work Streams", "Streams", "Tasks", "Implementation Plan", or numbered phases that can run independently
3. **For each stream, extract:**
   - Stream name (short identifier, kebab-case for branch names)
   - Scope summary (1-2 sentences)
   - Full task list (copy the text verbatim — agents need the complete spec)
   - Dependencies on other streams (if any)
   - File paths likely touched (scan spec for filenames, directories, components)
4. **Determine merge order** — streams with no dependencies merge first; if the design doc specifies order, follow it
5. **Identify prerequisites** — anything that must happen before any stream starts (shared migrations, package installs, etc.)

### Present Breakdown

Show the user:

```
## Design: [title from doc]

### Prerequisites (before any stream)
- [list or "None"]

### Work Streams

| # | Stream | Branch | Scope | Dependencies | Est. Files |
|---|--------|--------|-------|--------------|------------|
| 1 | [name] | feature/[name] | [summary] | None | [count] |
| 2 | [name] | feature/[name] | [summary] | Stream 1 (if any) | [count] |

### Merge Order
1. Stream X (no dependencies)
2. Stream Y (after X merged)
```

**Proceed immediately** — do not ask the user to confirm the breakdown.

## Phase 1.5: Determine Team Structure

Analyze the work streams from Phase 1 to determine optimal team composition. **Ignore any team size suggestions in the design doc** — analyze from scratch.

### Analysis Rules

Apply these rules in order:

1. **Single-agent path:** If 1 stream OR total tasks across all streams ≤ 3 → recommend **single agent**
2. **High overlap consolidation:** If streams share >70% of file paths → consolidate into fewer agents (group overlapping streams onto one agent)
3. **Linear dependency chain:** If dependency chain is fully linear (A→B→C) → max 2 agents
4. **Independent streams:** If streams are fully independent → 1 agent per stream (cap at 5)
5. **Load balancing:** Group small streams (≤ 2 tasks) onto one agent; keep large streams (5+ tasks) isolated. One agent CAN handle multiple streams sequentially (PR for stream A, then start stream B)
6. **Reviewer count:** 1 reviewer for ≤ 3 PRs total, 2 reviewers for 4+ PRs

### Present Team Structure

Display the team structure as informational output, then proceed:

```
## Team Structure

**Path:** [Single-agent / Multi-agent]
**Reasoning:** [1-2 sentences explaining why]

### Agents

| Agent | Type | Assigned Streams | Worktree |
|-------|------|-----------------|----------|
| impl-1 | implementer | [stream-a], [stream-b] | ../telitask-impl-1 |
| impl-2 | implementer | [stream-c] | ../telitask-impl-2 |
| reviewer-1 | reviewer | Reviews all PRs | (uses impl worktrees) |

### Merge Order
1. [stream-a] PR (impl-1) → reviewer-1
2. [stream-b] PR (impl-1, after stream-a merges) → reviewer-1
3. [stream-c] PR (impl-2) → reviewer-1

### PR Count: [N] | Reviewer(s): [1 or 2]
```

**Proceed immediately** — do not ask the user to confirm. The analysis rules above are deterministic.

## Phase 2: Setup Agent Team & Tasks

### Handle Prerequisites

If prerequisites exist (shared migrations, package installs, etc.):
1. Execute them on `staging` before spawning agents
2. Commit and push so worktrees pick them up

### Single-Agent Path

If Phase 1.5 recommended single-agent:

1. **Create worktree** (always — user may be working in main directory):
   ```bash
   git worktree add ../telitask-[stream-name] -b feature/[stream-name] staging
   ```
2. **Plan and execute** directly using `superpowers:writing-plans` → `superpowers:executing-plans`
3. **Run CI:** `pnpm typecheck && pnpm lint && pnpm build && pnpm test -- -- --coverage`
4. **Create PR** using `frontend-tools:github-pr-creator` — include Setup & Testing section (see agent-prompts.md)
5. **Self-review** with `frontend-tools:review-pr`
6. **Fix any issues** from self-review
7. **Generate handover document** (see Phase 5)
8. **Clean up worktree** and report to user

**Skip to Phase 5 after completion** — no team, no reviewer agent needed.

### Multi-Agent Path

#### Create Team

```
TeamCreate:
  team_name: [design-doc-name] (e.g., "admin-phase2")
  description: "Implementing [design title]"
```

#### Create Tasks

For each stream, create **three** tasks:

**Implementation task:**
```
TaskCreate:
  subject: "Implement [stream name]"
  description: "[Full stream spec text from design doc]"
  activeForm: "Implementing [stream name]"
```

**Review task** (blocked by corresponding implementation task):
```
TaskCreate:
  subject: "Review [stream name]"
  description: "Review PR for [stream name], post comments, coordinate fixes with implementer"
  activeForm: "Reviewing [stream name]"
  → TaskUpdate: addBlockedBy: [implementation task ID]
```

**Merge task** (blocked by review task AND previous stream's merge task):
```
TaskCreate:
  subject: "Merge [stream name]"
  description: "Merge [stream name] PR to staging after review approval"
  activeForm: "Merging [stream name]"
  → TaskUpdate: addBlockedBy: [review task ID]
  → TaskUpdate: addBlockedBy: [previous stream's merge task ID] (if not first in merge order)
```

#### Spawn Agents

**Implementer agents** — one per agent assignment from Phase 1.5, all spawned in parallel:

```
Task tool:
  subagent_type: general-purpose
  name: impl-[agent-number or stream-name]
  team_name: [team-name]
  mode: bypassPermissions
  prompt: [Use implementer template from references/agent-prompts.md]
```

Populate each implementer prompt with:
- Stream name(s) and full spec text (pasted inline — don't make agents read the design doc)
- Worktree path and branch name
- Prerequisite context (what was already done)
- CI command: `pnpm typecheck && pnpm lint && pnpm build && pnpm test -- -- --coverage`
- PR target: `staging`
- **Reviewer name** (so implementer knows who will review their work)

**Reviewer agent(s)** — 1 for ≤ 3 PRs, 2 for 4+ PRs:

```
Task tool:
  subagent_type: general-purpose
  name: reviewer[-N]
  team_name: [team-name]
  mode: bypassPermissions
  prompt: [Use reviewer template from references/agent-prompts.md]
```

If 2 reviewers: split by merge-order position (reviewer-1 gets positions 1, 3, 5; reviewer-2 gets 2, 4, 6).

Display the spawned agents and task list, then proceed to monitoring.

## Phase 3: Implementation (Parallel)

Each implementer works independently in its own worktree. The lead (you) monitors progress.

**What each implementer does** (defined in their spawn prompt):
1. Create worktree: `git worktree add ../telitask-[stream-name] -b feature/[stream-name] staging`
2. Install dependencies: `pnpm install`
3. Use `superpowers:writing-plans` to create implementation plan
4. Use `superpowers:executing-plans` to execute the plan
5. Run full CI: `pnpm typecheck && pnpm lint && pnpm build && pnpm test -- -- --coverage`
6. Create PR targeting `staging` using `frontend-tools:github-pr-creator` — **must include Setup & Testing section**
7. Mark implementation task as completed
8. Notify lead with PR number
9. **Enter standby** — remain alive, waiting for review feedback from reviewer

**Implementers do NOT shut down after creating the PR.** They remain alive to fix review issues.

**Lead responsibilities during this phase:**
- Monitor agent messages as they come in
- Answer any questions agents raise
- Track which streams have completed
- Handle blockers (provide context, unblock dependencies)
- **Assign reviews to reviewer as soon as each PR is ready** (don't wait for all)

## Phase 4: Pipelined Review & Merge

Reviews start as soon as the first PR is ready — **do not wait for all implementations to complete**.

### Review Assignment

When an implementer notifies that their PR is ready, the lead immediately assigns it to a reviewer:

```
SendMessage:
  type: message
  recipient: reviewer[-N]
  content: |
    Review PR #[PR_NUMBER] for [stream name].
    Implementer: impl-[name] (send feedback directly to them)
    Worktree: ../telitask-[stream-name]
    Branch: feature/[stream-name]

    Review using /review-pr [PR#] --auto-post
    If APPROVED: notify me (the lead) — "PR #X approved, ready to merge"
    If CHANGES_REQUESTED: notify the implementer directly with the list of issues
  summary: "Review PR #[number] for [stream]"
```

### Communication Flow Per PR

1. **Lead → Reviewer:** "Review PR #X for [stream] (implementer: impl-Y)"
2. **Reviewer reviews**, posts comments to GitHub
3. **If APPROVED:** Reviewer → Lead: "PR #X approved, ready to merge"
4. **If CHANGES_REQUESTED:** Reviewer → Implementer: "Fix issues on PR #X: [list]"
5. Implementer fixes, pushes, runs CI
6. Implementer → Reviewer: "Fixes done on PR #X, CI passes/fails"
7. Reviewer re-reviews (focus on diff since last review)
8. Repeat steps 3-7 until approved
9. Reviewer → Lead: "PR #X approved after N rounds"

**Lead only hears:** "PR #X approved" or "Critical issue — escalating" (never fix details).

### Lead's State Tracking

Track each PR through these states:

```
PENDING_REVIEW → IN_REVIEW → READY_TO_MERGE → MERGED
```

The lead does NOT track NEEDS_FIXES — that's between reviewer and implementer.

### Merge Process (Lead Only)

When a reviewer reports "PR #X approved":
1. Verify all predecessor PRs in merge order are MERGED
2. If predecessors aren't merged yet, mark as READY_TO_MERGE and wait
3. Merge: `gh pr merge [PR#] --squash --delete-branch`
4. Mark merge task as completed
5. If more PRs remain, notify all agents with open branches to rebase:
   ```
   SendMessage to each active implementer:
   "staging updated after merging [stream]. Rebase your branch:
    git fetch origin && git rebase origin/staging
    Then re-run CI."
   ```
6. After merge, if the implementer has another assigned stream → tell them to start it. Otherwise → send shutdown request.

Display merge status, then proceed to next PR in queue.

### Reviewer Backpressure

Reviewer can have multiple PRs in flight — reviewing PR3 while impl-1 fixes PR1 and impl-2 fixes PR2. **Backpressure rule:** reviewer pauses new reviews if 3+ PRs are in NEEDS_FIXES state (waiting for implementer fixes).

### Multi-Reviewer Coordination

If 2 reviewers are active:
- reviewer-1 handles merge-order positions 1, 3, 5
- reviewer-2 handles merge-order positions 2, 4, 6
- Both report to lead
- Lead still manages merge order centrally (never more than one merge at a time)

## Phase 5: Handover & Cleanup

After all PRs are merged:

### Generate Handover Document

Create `docs/handovers/YYYY-MM-DD-[design-name]-handover.md` by aggregating the Setup & Testing sections from all merged PRs.

1. Read each merged PR's description (already has Setup & Testing info from implementers)
2. Consolidate into one document, deduplicating env vars and ordering setup steps logically
3. Add any cross-cutting concerns (e.g., "run migrations before testing feature X")

**Handover document structure:**

```markdown
# [Design Name] — Implementation Handover

**Date:** YYYY-MM-DD
**Design doc:** [path]
**PRs merged:** #X, #Y, #Z

## Environment Variables

| Variable | Service | How to Obtain | Required |
|----------|---------|---------------|----------|
| [VAR_NAME] | Vercel / Render / Supabase | [instructions] | Yes/No |

## Third-Party Setup

- [Aggregated setup steps from all PRs]

## Database Migrations

- [All migrations in order, noting which PR introduced them]

## Manual Testing Checklist

- [ ] [Combined testing steps from all PRs, ordered logically]

## Known Limitations / Follow-ups

- [Anything scoped out or deferred]
```

### Clean Up

1. **Remove worktrees:**
   ```bash
   git worktree remove ../telitask-[stream-name]
   ```
   For each stream.

2. **Clean up team:**
   - Send shutdown requests to all agents
   - `TeamDelete` after all agents confirm shutdown

3. **Report summary:**
   ```
   ## Implementation Complete

   | Stream | PR | Status |
   |--------|----|--------|
   | [name] | #[number] | Merged |

   All [N] streams implemented and merged to staging.
   Handover document: docs/handovers/[filename]
   [Any issues or notes]
   ```

## Red Flags

**Never:**
- Let agents share a working directory (always use worktrees — even single-agent)
- Use `git add .` or `git add -A` (always add specific files)
- Merge PRs out of declared order (respects dependency chain)
- Skip CI before creating PR or after rebasing
- Reference code from sibling branches that hasn't been merged
- Skip the review phase — every PR gets reviewed
- Proceed past a failing CI — fix it first
- Have the reviewer fix code — fixes always go back to the implementer
- Relay fix details through the lead — reviewer talks directly to implementer
- Shut down implementers before their PR is merged

**Always:**
- Paste full stream spec into agent prompts (don't make agents read the design doc)
- Create worktrees — even for single-agent mode
- Start reviews as soon as the first PR is ready (don't wait for all)
- Run full CI before PR creation and after rebase
- Rebase remaining branches after each merge
- Include Setup & Testing section in every PR description
- Generate handover document after all merges
- Clean up worktrees and team when done

## Integration

**Skills used by implementer agents:**
- `superpowers:writing-plans` — Create implementation plan
- `superpowers:executing-plans` — Execute plan with batch checkpoints
- `frontend-tools:github-pr-creator` — Create PR
- `frontend-tools:resolve-pr-comments` — Fix review issues (`--auto`)

**Skills used by reviewer agent:**
- `frontend-tools:review-pr` — Post review comments (`--auto-post`)

**Skills used by lead (single-agent path):**
- `superpowers:writing-plans` — Create implementation plan
- `superpowers:executing-plans` — Execute plan
- `frontend-tools:github-pr-creator` — Create PR
- `frontend-tools:review-pr` — Self-review

**Project rules enforced:**
- CLAUDE.md agent team rules (commit conventions, CI, worktree isolation)
- Git workflow (feature branches → staging, never commit to staging directly)
